[NARRATOR] They dwell,
unseen, in the shadows...
A host of creatures
completely different
from the flora and fauna
familiar to us--
an invisible world
of life within our own.
Since the dawn of humanity,
these phantoms
have inspired fear
in those who could
not understand,
and have over the ages
come to be known as "mushi."
♪ Opening Song ♪
[RENZU]
Someone's coming...
Someone strange...
[RENZU]
Someone's coming...
[GINKO]
What was that?
A monkey, maybe?
[GINKO] Or maybe the forest
is playing tricks on me...
It's like a sea of green
in all directions...
I could lose myself in it.
[GINKO]
It's not widely known,
but once in a great while,
an individual is
born into the world
who possesses a rare
and wonderful gift--
The power to create life.
Ah... Good.
If I just write with my
left hand, it should be safe.
Let's see...
"Spring has settled in, and the
trees have begun to come alive.
The birds have also started..."
I naturally write with
my left hand anyway.
This makes things
so much easier...
[gasps]
Darn it.
I almost forgot.
These characters are based
on pictures-- pictographs.
Well, I'll just
cross these out...
[grunts]
[door rattles]
[SHINRA]
Hey!
Come back here, bird!
What in the...?
[SHINRA] Come on!
You can't just go flying off!
[GINKO]
Ink?
[footsteps]
[SHINRA gasps]
[panting]
You... saw...?
[GINKO]
I did.
Whatever it was.
I'm looking for Shinra Yoroi.
Is that you?
Oh, uh... Yes?
[GINKO]
You got my letter, I take it?
Oh, so... that was you...
You're Ginko...
The Mushi Master... right?
[SHINRA] I was actually
just writing you a reply.
You're not the first
person who's come here,
hoping to study me.
But like I told them, I'm afraid
I have to turn you away.
It was my grandmother's
final wish...
She wanted to keep others
from learning about my gift.
She told me I should
try to avoid using it
as much as possible.
I guess you've already
seen for yourself.
If I draw a picture of
something, it comes alive--
even if it's not a picture
of a living thing.
See, my grandmother felt
it was somehow wrong
that a person should be able
to create new forms of life
out of thin air.
That was work best left to
the gods, she always said.
And she absolutely forbade me
from drawing anything
with my left hand.
Oh!
If I draw with my right
hand, nothing happens.
Just my left.
But unfortunately...
I hurt my finger
the other day, so...
You were writing left-handed
when the creature I saw
got away from you?
Yeah, it was an accident.
I was completely surprised
when it started moving.
I don't know why, really.
I've had stranger
things come to life on me.
[GINKO]
Really? Such as?
[SHINRA]
Mm... An umbrella...
A backscratcher...
But I shouldn't be
telling you this.
[GINKO snickers]
Don't worry, that doesn't mean
you have to leave this
instant or anything.
You must be tired, walking all
this way through the mountains.
You're welcome to stay
the night, if you like.
To tell you the truth,
it's been such a long time
since I've had company.
I'd love to hear about
what's happening
out there in the world.
Try this.
It's a little fruit
wine that I made.
I like it, but this is the first
chance I've had to share it.
[GINKO]
Huh...
You really are alone
out here, aren't you?
Guess there's no one
around for miles...
[SHINRA]
No, it's just me.
It's been like this
for four years now.
Before she passed on, Grandma
made me promise I'd stay here.
[GINKO]
I can see why.
If he were living
in a town or village,
and accidentally brought
some strange creature to life
where others could see it...
Well, he probably
wouldn't be able to live
a quiet, peaceful life,
like he does now.
An ability like his...
...is beyond the scope of
most people's understanding.
Sounds to me like
your grandmother
was an incredibly wise woman.
[SHINRA]
Yeah.
I guess she was.
She was always
looking out for me.
[SHINRA]
It's just--
[SHINRA] Well, I want
to show you something.
[GINKO]
Huh?
What's all this?
Did you draw these?
[SHINRA]
Mm-hm.
Sometimes, when I'm by myself,
these creatures suddenly
appear out of nowhere.
I have no idea what they are
or where they come from,
but they're fun to watch.
So one day, I drew
these pictures
and showed them to Grandma,
so she could see them, too.
Only, it just seemed to
upset her for some reason.
She said:
[GRANDMA]
These visions--
these phantom "creatures"--
you claim to see...
I don't know why
they afflict you so,
but I'm sure it has
something to do
with that awful
power you possess.
Just put them out
of your mind, Dear.
Forget about them.
They're not real.
You poor, poor child.
[SHINRA] That's all she
would ever say about it.
And until the day she died,
she never really believed
I saw the things I saw.
[SHINRA]
It got to the point that
I even started doubting myself,
thinking maybe she was right.
Maybe it was all
in my mind somehow.
No matter how hard I tried...
...I just couldn't seem
to make her understand.
That's because...
...these creatures
are all "mushi."
Mushi?
[GINKO]
That's right.
I suppose there's
really no simple way
to explain what they are,
but let me try giving
you an analogy.
Say these four fingers
represent animal life,
and your thumb
represents plant life.
Human beings would be here, at
the tip of your middle finger,
the farthest point
from your heart.
Moving toward the
palm of your hand,
you find the lower
forms of animal life.
When you get to
your wrist though,
that's where your blood vessels
combine into one, right?
[SHINRA]
Right.
[GINKO] This is where you would
find fungi and microorganisms.
From here, it becomes
more and more difficult
to distinguish between
plant and animal life.
Even so, there is still
life beyond this point.
And if you keep going...
...all the way up your arm...
...past your shoulder...
...when you get to this point...
...at the place that's closest
to your heart, right here.
These creatures...
are the mushi.
[GINKO] They are life
in its purest form.
[GINKO]
Because of their nature,
their shapes and physical
appearances are ambiguous.
Some you can see;
some you can't.
Yeah, some were transparent.
Sort of like a ghost.
Many of the things that
people call "ghosts"
are actually mushi
of some sort.
Some can even take
on human form.
I'm guessing your grandmother
was simply unable
to see the mushi.
It's not surprising she
didn't believe you.
It's not easy to communicate
a sensory experience.
Just as it would be difficult to
completely describe the feel
and texture of an object
to someone who's never
held it in his own hands.
[GINKO]
Try though you might,
unless your grandmother could
see it with her own eyes,
it would be almost impossible
to make her understand
the mushi world.
[SHINRA]
I'm sorry, Grandma.
I didn't know.
But you have no idea
how happy it makes me
to learn that these strange
creatures really do exist.
[snoring]
[footsteps]
[GINKO] Now... where was
that bathroom again?
This place is a maze.
It's so big.
I don't see how Shinra
lives here all alone.
[GINKO]
Then again, maybe he doesn't...
An old house like this, it's
no surprise to find mushi here.
[GINKO]
Where'd it go?
[RENZU]
Oh... A mushi pin...
Hoping to find a new specimen
to add to your collection,
is that it?
You don't scare me,
Mushi Master.
[chuckles] Well...
You're a cheeky one, aren't you.
[RENZU gasps]
[whimpers]
Wha--? What's happening?
What is this?!
It's mushi.
Same as you.
With one difference...
This one likes to
stick to other mushi.
[GINKO]
It'll fade in a second.
[gasps]
[GINKO]
Say...
What do we have here?
A broken wine cup?
It's a shame.
I really like the color--
[RENZU]
Shut up.
Give it back.
How dare you barge into
my house like this?
Go away.
Get out!
[GINKO] That's big talk
coming from a mushi.
What are you saying?
This is your house?
[RENZU]
Yes, that's right.
[GINKO]
Ah...
I see...
I think I'm beginning
to understand.
You were a human once,
but somehow you came to
acquire mushi characteristics.
You're rather weak, though,
which suggests you're
not a full mushi.
And along with the
broken green wine cup,
gives me some idea of how
you ended up like this.
It also tells me who you are.
Your name...
...is Renzu.
[gasps]
You didn't think
I'd come all this way
without doing my
homework, did you?
I think I know a way
that we can make this
wine cup whole again.
[GINKO]
Care to hear me out?
For your grandson's sake?
What are you saying?
Grandma's still here
in this house?
[GINKO]
Yes, that's right.
Though, not in human form.
Right now she's stuck in limbo,
between the human
and mushi worlds...
[SHINRA]
I--
I don't understand.
There's a phenomenon
called a "Mushi Banquet."
The mushi appear in human form,
and invite a chosen guest
to sit among them.
The guest is then
presented with a wine cup.
For those who accept the cup,
as they drink from it,
the physical boundaries of their
human body begin to fade.
In other words, they begin to
cross over into the mushi world.
So that's what happened...
to Grandma...?
That's right.
Except for some reason,
her banquet was interrupted.
Thus, your grandmother
was unable to complete
her mushi transformation.
That's not to say
she wasn't changed.
She was still a different person
when she returned to this house.
Half of herself had
been left behind.
But know this:
even though the grandmother
you knew and loved was only
half of her former self,
the other half was here,
too, in this house,
watching over you every day,
from the day you were born.
I... I'm sorry. I had no idea.
[GINKO]
I know.
You weren't able to see her
because she's not a full mushi.
But you can still help her.
I believe you can
use your powers
to complete her
mushi transformation.
If you do this, though,
she will never be able to
return to the human world.
It's your choice.
Is that true...?
So if we do as
you say, then I'll--
I'll really be able
to see Shinra again?
[GINKO] Your grandmother
didn't need long to decide.
Shinra...
You will help her...
...won't you?
[SHINRA] Don't watch
me while I'm drawing.
[GINKO]
I know, I know...
Now, whenever you're ready...
With your left hand,
try drawing the wine cup
that your grandmother received
at the Mushi Banquet--
The one that I told you about.
Okay, but... you never told me
what it looks like,
the color or the shape.
It's okay, don't
worry about that.
Just use your imagination.
[SHINRA]
My imagination?
[GINKO]
Trust me.
The half of the wine cup
your grandmother kept
should have been passed
down figuratively
through the generations,
first to her child and
then to her grandchild.
[GINKO]
Since he told me not to...
...I just have to look.
I get-- I get the
feeling that it's green.
Like the forest...
A deep green...
Lush and vibrant...
And it's-- it's flat...
...and round in shape.
[GINKO]
That's it!
--[GINKO] Oh, wow...
--[SHINRA gasps]
[SHINRA]
It's cracking.
Renzu!
[SHINRA]
Is that you, Grandma?
Are you there?
[GINKO]
Now then...
Oh! What is that...?
Your turn, Renzu.
Drink this.
Uh-- Grandma...?
[chuckles]
Come on, no need to be shy.
Oh, sorry.
I just wasn't expecting
her to be so young is all.
And here. You should
have a sip, too.
Y'know, to celebrate.
[SHINRA]
Sure.
[SHINRA gasps]
[SHINRA]
Are these...
...Grandma's memories?
I need to hurry.
The sun is starting to set.
[RENZU]
Mushi...?
I can't get out of line...
[HUMANOID]
Please...
...drink...
...Renzu Yoroi.
[HUMANOID] This is a banquet
held in your honor.
[RENZU]
It's so fragrant.
[RENZU] I've never
tasted anything like it.
I could lose myself
in this forever...
[HUMANOID]
Are you enjoying your drink?
What you are tasting is a living
entity known as "Light Wine."
It springs from a place that,
normally, you could not reach--
a river of light that flows
in the depths of the
deepest darkness.
We have created especially
for you this wine cup,
which can extract the light.
The river flows all around you,
as it has since
life first began.
When it nears the soil, grasses
grow green and forests blossom.
If it recedes, the landscape
withers in drought.
In other words, it is
the water of life.
You will not taste anything
more delicious in this world.
The reason we have set
this banquet for you
and shared with you this drink,
is that we have a
favor to ask of you.
Thirty-one years from now,
your grandson will be born
with a very special gift--
a power with the potential to
change the world as you know it.
We would like you
to watch over him,
for the entirety of his life.
[RENZU]
My... My grandson?
[HUMANOID] His powers will
be a source of great happiness
for both him and the world...
If you agree to the task
we have set before you,
we will grant you
powers of your own.
Drink the wine to the last
drop, and it will be so.
[crow squawks]
[RENZU]
It's empty...
I should be getting home.
[cup shatters]
[SHINRA gasps]
[RENZU]
Shinra...?
I'm sorry...
I'm crying, but I
have no idea why.
[GINKO]
Shinra's tears would not stop...
He could feel all
of Renzu's emotions
as her memories
flowed through him.
He experienced that day in
the forest, just as she had.
And finally, he understood.
The overwhelming sadness...
The profound sense of loss
over the broken cup...
And as Shinra's tears flowed,
so did the Light Wine.
It flowed from the cup,
endlessly...
...like the river
from which it came...
[snoring]
[RENZU]
Leaving already?
[GINKO]
That's new.
This place is covered in moss.
[RENZU] Yes, this is where
the Light Wine spilled
onto the ground last night.
So, have you given up
on studying Shinra, then?
For now, I guess.
I hear his grandmother doesn't
like strangers nosing around.
[chuckles]
Well, if you're ever
traveling this way,
I do hope you'll stop by.
I know it can't
be helped, but...
Shinra does get lonely
here by himself.
No. I don't think he'll
have that problem anymore.
At least, not as long as he
has you here by his side.
[SHINRA groans]
Huh? Where's Ginko?
He's already gone.
What? But he didn't
even tell me goodbye.
It's too bad,
we didn't get a chance
to thank him properly.
[SHINRA]
Maybe not...
But...
The green wine cup is missing.
[GINKO]
From that day on,
the rumors of the boy with
the god-like left hand
were heard less and less...
Until finally, they
simply faded away.
[NARRATOR]
Next: "The Light of the Eyelid."